# Generation rent -- Synopsis

## Introduction

It's year 2061. Automation replaces 99% of jobs avilable in the beginning of the century. Big hopes placed in development of human-level AI never fullfill. However, virtual reality becomes very well developed, with virtual reality systems connecting directly into subject's central and autosomal nervous system. The basis of economy is brain hire -- means by which individuals can be paid for renting some of the processing power of their brain to one of few mega-corporations, which employ all of this processing power to run all of the automation in the economy. 99% of living people rent their brains in such way, spending most of the money earned and their free time inside the virtual reality playing games, meeting other people, world-building, etc. These people are usually poorly educated and somewhat low-income trapped, having to rent more and more of their brain time in order to afford accomodation and access to virtual reality, which is what really gives their lives meaning. The world described is a world of mental slaves, brain prostitutes, people who are unhappy with their non-virtual lives and without a way to change them. A world of people whose livestyle imprisons them taking away their freedom.

## Chapter 1

The chapter begins inside VR. Jake and Lisa, coming of age, best friends and who know each other only in VR are world building together. Or rather it is Jake who is world-building, Lisa is giving him tips, commenting and laughing. They're having good fun. They're building a palace from ice with towers, frozen fountain etc. After it's finished they go inside and furnish it with beds and furs, etc. They engage in some fun activity like pillow fight. While playing they become quite close physically and there is an intense moment, which could turn into a first kiss, if only Jake didn't feel hes' interacted with from outside: his father wants to talk with him outside VR.

## Chapter 2

Jake's father (rough and primitive, unpleasant type) calls Jake for a dinner. The flat they live in is a rathole, concrete, unpainted walls, naked bulbs, claustrophobic. the only nice thing is VR systems next to inhabitant's beds, which connect direcly into family member's bodies. Jake follows his father and orders a ready-meal in the kitchen, which gets quickly delivered on the table in an automated way. Jake's father notices that one of Jake's VR connectors is infected -- looks like bacterial infection with skin inflamation and pus gather around the connector. Jake's father after a violent argument forces Jake to go and get it checked by an automated surgeon in the other part of the town. Jake leaves the flat and walks through what looks like an almost abandoned city, full of wires vacuum delivery tubes, and abandoned playgrounds, etc. While walking along the streets he hears a gunshot. Soon, a group of people is running past him, chased by automated police (ala Boston Dynamics), shooting rubber bullets/ nets at them and trying to catch them. One in the group gets caught in a net and Jake helps out. The automated police ain't liking it and he has to flee with the rest of the group. Eventually they board a vehicle and they escape. He meets Maurice, and his gang of rebels/terrosits, people who are trying to undermine the position of brain-hire corporation by destroying the VR infrastructure and trying to free people. Maurice tells Jake that he won't be able to go back home, since police already recorded and analysed his face and will capture him if he comes back. Jake becomes an outcast like Maurice and the rest. They arrive at the camp and Jakes meets other rebels.

## Chapter 3

It's necessary to show in this chapter an inner fight happening inside Jake. On one hand he likes real life and despite lack of education (rebels are quite intelectual) he seams to have experienced more of life than rebels. This can be shown by him building a castle from sand with one of his new friends (Lisa replacement). The girl would know nothing of castles and he would, and he would have known so much more amazing castles than sand castles. The vision of Maurice, of the world where all people are again free is on one hand tempting and romantic, but on the other hand it's too idealistic, can't be put into practice and is quite alien to Jake. Jake is lost, he mises Lisa and his crappy parents, and he doesn't fit in his new environment. He doesn't know what to do.

## Chapter 4

We meet here Mark, a CEO of one of the brain-hire companies. We discover him as a man with a vision, but quite pragmatic, and getting-things done. We see him negotating government funding for a colony on Mars he wants to set up using brain power/ automation for all mission planning and execution. He wants humanity to achieve great things and he's ready to sacrifice some things for it, like ethics. During the meeting a topic of rebels comes up, and we discover that the company has a spy inside the rebel group.

## Chapter 5

While wandering outside of the camp Jake discovers the spy reporting to Mark. The spy doesn't see him. He quitely returns to the camp and at first thinks of telling Maurice, but eventually decides not to. Soon Maurice achieves hist first local success. By destroying a VR router in the outskirsts of a big city he manages to disconnect a district from VR. Little he knows that his move has been forseen, and everybody in the district was pre-programmed the night before against his revolutionary ideas. He gathers all disconnected people in a square in the middle of the district and preaches to them about freedom and how real life can look like. He's great, but people are angry, they tie up Maurice and the rest of his band, and give them in to automated police.

## Chapter 6

 Climax is reached. Marice and Mark meet in the office. The romantic luddite and the pragmatic visioner clash their ideologies. At some point Maurice is shown a video of Jake reuniting with Lisa inside the CR, and a romanatic scene they engage in. Maurice loses his faith and is offered to commit suicide in return for the freedom of the rest of his people. He accepts, and dies in front of his folk. The colony on Mars is successfully estabilished through brain-hire.
